we are in for a treat today um uh we
have one of uh my favorite Founders and
I think a one of the SAS leaders that I
think is one of the most interesting
luckily to study in
2023 um now Iran is a saster annual
veteran you were here in
2017 yeah yes you weren't even called
Monday back then were you yeah we were
uh let me tell you a story about that
okay yeah yeah so um I went to my first
saster in 2017 I think it was February
2017 dead of winter yeah uh it was in
the city and uh when you registered you
had like a a pin or a badge that says
how much ARR do you have oh yeah we do
have those there was like a $5 million 1
million 10 million and I remember uh I
think we had seven back then yeah it was
6 years ago we had 7 million and I
thought should I take the 5 million or
the 10 million you know what's uh um so
I I don't remember what I took um but I
just want to say uh thank you Jason
because it's been such an amazing
conference back then and the community
has grown so much and um you know I'm
sitting here today for me it's a kind of
a closure as a as a Founder because I
was in the audience like all of you
right now and I remember that we have 7
million and uh you know it was very hard
to imagine the future I'm here now which
is amazing so maybe some of you will be
in the next SAS speakers in a few years
some will be well hold on can we put
these slides up for a second so 7
million in 2017 let's look here yeah cuz
you hit 2011 during the year yeah so I
want to talk about this slide in a
second but let's just think about the
sheer power of compounding revenue for a
minute I mean Monday is an outline I
mean it's one of the best but 7 million
when you came in 2017 and today you're
coming up on 700 right yeah 40 last
quarters over over 700 so that's 100
let's just slow this down let's enjoy
the
moment a little bit of respect
here I mean it didn't did it feel like
in 2017 you could be 100x bigger I mean
even though you were growing like a we
did you really feel you could be 100x
bigger in in that amount of time it's
six years right is that six years it's
crazy uh well I remember you had a
phrase that says 1 to 10 is improbable
yeah so 10 to 100 is uh inevitable
inevitable you're inevitable how much is
it from 100 to a billion like it's I
don't know that that we didn't we I
don't think there was a SAS company that
a billion at that time so we have to uh
yeah um I think it's an more than
inevitable I don't know um you got to I
think you got to I think the I think it
gets less uh pithy because it's like you
got to go multiproduct yeah inevitable
super inevitable if you go multi product
if not so yeah force of Nature and what
we'll get into a Monday's nrr today is
roughly what even from smbs it's almost
120 115 something yeah 115 yeah and what
just think about this this craziness of
the 100x right do you remember what it
was back in 2017 selling to
smbs uh what the nrr yeah no the no the
re the NR how much of a boost did we get
of this nrr do you know what was it over
100 how much our nrr was in 2017 uh much
less I don't remember exactly how much
it was but maybe around the '90s '90s
yeah would be my guess yeah
so okay there's a bunch of stuff I want
to talk about of Monday it's so
interesting and the title this
presentation which I um unskillfully
fast forward but I think it was
steering uh not turbulent times cuz
that's not the M story uh unpredictable
times is that what it is that we're
going to get into Monday has you've had
your challenges the last few years but
we really as we'll talk about we haven't
really missed a beat the growth is epic
so but before we get there I was
thinking about this Monday's got to be
the SAS company that more people think
they know about that don't between
YouTube and the Super Bowl everyone
thinks they know what Monday does but
they actually probably only understand
part of the suite and so give us just in
a couple minutes give us a sense of
where it started in everything that
Monday does today just so we can
triangulate on where you at coming up on
a billion in Revenue yeah um so as you
can see ever since we been in saster we
had iper growth uh since 2017 and um I
think uh your statement is pretty much
correct I think lot of people probably
saw an ad about Monday or read about it
uh but I feel a lot of people don't
understand the full depth of what the
platform is um if I ask like a random
person uh even here in the audience uh
what is Monday you probably going to get
a variety of answers anywhere from
project management to Work Management
maybe some will say
CRM uh but in essence if you can see the
graph and all the features that we added
from day one we built a platform
uh and a platform in the deep meaning of
that which is uh a software that's very
flexible not rigid allows everybody to
build uh kind of their own solution and
the first use case that we kind of
focused on was project management and
that's what you saw most of the ads um
the reason behind it was that nobody
went on Google and searched for a
flexible software to manage my business
right like nobody does that people
search for project management they
search for CRM so we had to change from
our like there's the company Vision on
one hand but there's the go-to market on
the other hand and you need to balance
the two uh you need to understand what
people are searching for what's their
intent is and what is the product you're
building on the other hand so money is
always been a platform and now we as you
mentioned we transition into
multiproducts so we launch Monday CRM we
launch Monday Dev but that's an
evolution of our platform it's all built
on one platform and how thinking through
that now I hear you say it
again you know question is when you have
something this Rich to especially to
smbs how do you communicate that right
now the the Google search is an inter
example right because Pro how do you
communicate this depth it's it's it's
it's so much functionality right how do
you do that without overwhelming or how
do you expose a small business to it
yeah so so I think uh the main point
that um we we've done uh which I think
is important you don't need to tell the
whole story from the beginning uh
especially when you sell to smbs um I
think that we focus on giving them value
as soon as possible so if you were
searching for a project management or
CRM we wanted to serve them a CRM or a
project management don't need to explain
the whole depth of the platform and then
as they scale the product and use it
more and more they're exposed to all the
features so we call it like gradual
Discovery don't overwhelm them don't
tell them the whole story because it's
confusing especially when you're in SMB
you want to understand what you're
buying so that's that was our uh Focus
from day one is there some sort of
metric you guys use in terms of like how
much of the port product portfolio folks
use over time do you track like percent
of features or functionality do you
think about that uh yeah so uh one thing
we've done since the beginning of the
company uh we actually built uh a bi
Tool uh called Big bra first year first
year first year uh I'll tell you a story
we were seven people in the office
literally seven people including Ray
myself my partner
uh so I think like three developers and
uh that was back in
2014 uh and we built a bi tool called
Big Brain uh back then it was a major
investment uh for that size of a company
uh but from day one we said we can fly
blind like we have to know what's going
on in the product so we built this tool
like internal tool that help us track
Revenue uh marketing expans uh and also
usage of the product so from day one we
focused on uh engagement and usage
because otherwise people will churn
people won't recommend to use the
product so that was a big Focus for us
and until today big brain is a major
part of the company yeah uh and even
like I think you said even in year one
selling snbs even the customer lifetime
value was highly instrumented right and
I think you had like an eight-month CAC
you and Roy targeted and you had it sort
of targeted down to the last decimal
point or something like that yeah um so
when we started a company uh you know
back then in
2014 um you know there wasn't a lot of
money that you could raise as a startup
maybe similar to today I think um our
first round just you all know uh we
raised 1.4
million uh in 2 million pre okay so that
was let's not think about the the math
of Del let's not even think about that
math for for about 30% of the company uh
1.4 million for 30% of the company uh
that was our seed round so money wasn't
in abundance like like we we we had to
measure everything we had to track
everything we've been doing uh and I
think it's stuck with us the sufficiency
uh we always think about expenses and we
think about how do we measure things uh
and and I think it's very healthy uh for
companies to do that yeah so I want to
dig in more uh to some of the
interesting about Monday but just on
this history the one thing that I don't
know is as you guys started to take off
at that 7 to 70 what was the 10x feature
like what was the magic thing at the
soft level that Monday did uh that
others didn't do what if there was a 10x
feature what was that what was that aha
thing yeah so uh initially it was the
boards uh which is kind of our Monday
database if you like yeah uh but I think
every time we made a lip in terms of
product features it wasn't because of
feedback we got from customers I always
like to talk with customers but actually
the major leaps was things they didn't
expect so for example uh automations was
a huge driver of growth we added
automation even though not a lot of
customers asked for it yeah but just
automate manual work that was a huge
game that's everything today but that
was way ahead of its time right yeah
yeah now it's it's very common but back
in the day and how we built it was very
unique and did they but so they're doing
the Google search for project management
software which isn't even all of Monday
you're getting them into a trial what
what what got them to convert in the
early like what was there it wasn't just
that that the maybe it was the
automation but what would get them to
convert when they're are more vendors
out there yeah um so so I think um R
myself my partner are uh uh kind of
unique because we're both Engineers okay
so none of us is like the business
person uh and uh to be honest since day
one I didn't like selling to customers
like it's something I'm not good at you
know like I always felt it's not my
skill I'd rather write like a 100,000
slides of code than to pick up the phone
and call call somebody you know it's
just there's probably a few in the room
that that have felt that way yeah yeah
uh so maybe maybe you know it was a
coincidence but it just forced us to
build a product that kind of
automatically converts uh because we're
product people and we wanted the
customers to become pay customers
without talking to anybody you know just
use the product and pay for it that's
the best
way uh so we put so much focus on user
experience we AB tested everything and
we made the product very simple to start
with again going back to that principle
of gradual Discovery and then you
discover the depth of the the product
but I I think that's a great way to
build a company if you want to focus on
product Le growth because you know
thinking in retrospect let's say we had
like an amazing salesperson in the
company even though we had in the
beginning like a shitty product that
person might be able to sell and then
you get a wrong signal you get a wrong
signal and because we didn't have a
salesperson and people have to convert
and send the product by themselves I
think just create a very healthy product
Market fit not all product Market fits
are equal so that's uh I think one one
benefit that happened because of that
yeah I mean there's there's and we'll
talk a little bit about I mean Monday
has gone up Market 50k customers are
your biggest growth area but if you can
start with a true selfservice motion
your your product can be magically
better right versus having humans bridge
the gap so you know that's it's the
nature of bigger customers Enterprise
humans humans become the the Gap fillers
it's not all bad but you can never go
back I think is the thing yeah all right
so let's that's a good background let's
talk about this for a minute obvious to
you and then but it'll set the tone for
the next pieces I just pulled that 70%
of our customers are in non-tech real
estate banking journalism construction
two Engineers that didn't want to talk
to customers how'd you get into non-tech
how did you make this how did you get
out of tech by the way don't get me
wrong I love our customers no I know you
do love you don't like selling I miss I
misspoke that you don't want to sell you
love talking and getting feedback not
not I get it yeah
um okay so um I think that that's an
important Point uh when we started the
company we said that we want to sell the
product not just for tech companies
right I think a lot of startups focus on
Tech and it makes sense uh you come from
that industry uh but I think if you can
again maybe some tech products can but
if you can uh expand to like non- Tech
Industries that's a major benefit major
benefit uh from day one 70% of our c
customers were non-tech and non-tech I
mean you can see here like real estate
banking construction even churches uh
we're using us back in the days uh and
and now and um for me that's like the
real world that's like real businesses
and we probably going to touch it uh in
in a few slides but I think that's one
of the things that made us very
resilient as a company even you know in
what we see now because I think a lot of
companies are overly exposed to tech
companies took a big hit compared to
others so so uh that and by the way this
was always also a coincidence because uh
you know the fact that Monday is so
flexible it allowed us to enter into
other verticals that we didn't have
experience in like I have no uh
experience in banking or real estate or
construction but our customers do and
because the platform was very flexible
they could use it and to their own needs
and was it was this I mean you said this
was from year one or day one but was
this strategic did you say it's less
competitive in these spaces or was it
your own DNA or how did you make these
these decisions uh so it was a little
bit random in the beginning so uh when
we started we ran a bunch of Facebook
ads yeah um and I remember the original
Banner it was uh uh manage your your
startup or something like that and we
had you know churches signing up and we
have like construction uh companies Sig
up and like it's not a startup but
they've been using it and they love it
and we can serve those customers so
let's strategically choose that path uh
so it was kind of random but
uh just seeing what they're doing with
the platform was mindblowing back in the
days so you use I mean for Facebook ads
are an effective way to reach those
Industries as we know that sell that so
you you hacked it you you ran a bunch of
Facebook ads and the ones into more
traditional industries were easy to
convert and you ran with it yeah we had
also a lot of tech companies but we also
had a variety of other Industries as
well yeah yeah that makes sense it's
interesting okay so let's um for folks
let's slow down this slide and I'm not
saying everything for the last two years
from Monday's been easy right there have
been Mac some macro impacts overall if
we squinted we could see one quarter was
better than the other but let's just
step back for a minute and this is just
out of their their their actually very
very good public analyst stuff go to
just do a Google search for Monday
analyst and they a lot of public
companies start uh shrinking the amount
of data they share not Monday yet so
it's a gift that's why I write it up on
saster but look whatever has happened in
parts of Tech parts of sales and
marketing whatever whatever other
speakers here will tell you the world
ended last year and we're in the the the
worst down turn since the 14th century
right since the since the bubonic this
or whatever um maybe but maybe not if
you sell to to real normal businesses
right because there is a little bit of
impact here right but overall this is a
pretty consistent cons actually that's
the that's the term consistent right so
what did you what did you learn through
this macro last 24 months summarize it
for all of us what did you guys
learned yeah so uh definitely I guess
all of you have felt it you know what
happened in the last year and a half uh
we also felt it but you're right to a
lesser extent yeah um I think there's a
few reasons for that uh there's things
you can control and things you can
control but uh as I mentioned the fact
that we're not 100% Tech focused was a
big is big big thing uh because like
like I've said a lot of non-tech
companies were not affected uh by the
economy so that's a benefit if you can
selling to non- te companies that's a
great way to expand the the the company
it it was very um you know it was great
to sell the tech companies in back in 21
because they were growing like crazy and
it created a great growth but I think
that real businesses if they can should
sell to you know multiple verticals so
that's one number two which I think
we've done right and if if you have a
right now I think that's uh something
you can do is Performance Marketing uh
what I saw when the economy changed was
that a lot of companies cut Performance
Marketing entirely it's the easiest
thing to reduce because let's say that
you want to reduce the burn what's the
first thing you're doing not let people
go or reduce expenses you stop doing
Performance Marketing yeah just cut it
all right variable cost but in my
opinion it's a big mistake um because
right now uh we not only we kept doing
it but we actually scaled it uh and
right now we have like the lowest bids
that we ever saw as as a company because
everybody pulled back a lot of companies
reduce pen and we're more aggressive
than ever but I think you know in
retrospect why they've done it is that
we had big brains so we had the
confidence that every campaign we
spending on was bringing the results I
think a lot of companies you know back
in 2122 just spend money on Performance
Marketing they saw the AR grow so they
said okay it makes sense you know it's a
good ratio but they know how to
attribute the campaign to the result and
and we knew so my tip to you is is two
things one if you can try and do
Performance Marketing again because it's
very cheap right now you should do it
you should get new customers on board uh
so that's one uh and number two if you
can try to measure how each individual
campaign affects AR it's not that
complicated to do it it's very easy to
attribute that and it just gives you so
much confidence and ability to
scale yeah I think when times were
really good you know marketing budgets
inflated and just certain amounts were
just thrown at Performance Marketing and
and too much was thrown and just cut to
the Bone right just literally cut to the
Bone okay one more question on this
looking at this fresh and then we'll
move on but uh I I have studied Monday a
lot and I'm a super fan what I don't I I
think I understand why Monday's grown so
quickly but it's really grown quickly
and I we can look at other companies
that are you know top top top best of
all time um maybe handful like Microsoft
are grown faster but for B2B where you
it's subscription revenue and you do
need to do I'm missing a little bit of
the story about why Monday grew quite as
fast as it did not why it's getting to a
billion but what am I what was the thing
that really blew Monday up um so so I
think it's a combination of few things
it's not like one thing that I can put
my my uh
um Hands-On but combination of
Performance Marketing which is very
efficient you probably saw our ads on on
YouTube on on I think we all saw them
yeah we hopefully but they worked they
work they work they work and that's the
point they work and we know they work
okay so that's one thing uh second thing
is is again a lot of vertical so that
really helps you because uh one thing
that helped us reduce the marketing span
was let's say you focus just on one
vertical let's say project management at
some point you exhaust the inventory and
then uh the incremental dollar you put
is not as efficient as the first one so
the fact you can go multi vertical is a
hack in a way because you can bid in
each industry and be very efficient in
that so that was one Eng really help us
second one is the product okay we allow
our customers to use it so they don't
have a lot of feature requests we almost
didn't get a lot of customer uh feedback
or anything like that because we gave
them the ability to customize their own
product so it's not like a million of
feature requests that we had every day
because we gave them that freedom in a
way so I think it's not not just one
thing but a combination of a few things
uh that truly help us grow the company
that quickly on this multi-vertical
thing that is a I think a bigger Insight
than I realized or folks realized do you
staff it do you have like a a mini GM of
different verticals thinking about how
many of these how many these verticals
have like a PM or a GM yeah so right now
we uh really scale that so we have
Monday Sal CRM and Monday Dev which is a
complete organization within a company
but back in the day we had a team
working on each one of those verticals
and and again uh each one of those
verticals was born because we saw our
customers using them so they've used it
for a bunch of things we learn from them
and then we package that into a product
and I I tend to think of when you're
trying to look at the data I I tend to
typically think of 10% as material like
if 10% of your customers in an area lean
in on it because you're doing vertical
was it smaller if you saw 5% of your
customers from churches um or banking
was there a m was there a number that
was material to lean in and invest in
more into vertical so so the way we
verticalized it wasn't the customer but
the usage so uh you have you know you
have churches doing fundraising and you
have churches managing I don't know what
uh but but there's a lot of use cases
each company uses uh and and we actually
saw what they're using it for uh and
this is how we package the product for
different use cases got it okay super
super interesting okay this let's slow
this down I have written a lot of this
on
saster um and boy this is the story of
the Year Monday's not the only one but
maybe one of the most visceral let's for
folks that that don't have to worry
about things like operating margins or
free cash flow because they're just
they're just running their businesses
this is like night and day so so walk me
through this in Q2 of 22 Monday was
hyper fast growing right and so you were
burning some cash it's okay right that's
what that's what scale ups and start up
some you know ra how much did you raise
your IPO a couple hundred million you
can spend a little bit of it right and
and it was great and the growth was
incredible in four five quarters you go
from not that unprofitable but
unprofitable to wildly profit I mean I
guess this is free cash flow but plus
26% in five quarters you were burning 16
cents for each dollar that came in
that's not bad that's a pretty low burn
multiple Now 26 Cents of every dollar is
going to cash flow so we're going to
talk about this a little bit but this is
this is night and day isn't it yeah uh
so a few interesting points about this
uh one like now the company has over 1
billion in cash and I think the
important part is uh we actually
celebrated a few a few months ago bilon
in cash well not just billion in cash
but something happened that um uh we had
more cash in the bank than we ever
raised from VCS uh and the public market
so uh in the board meeting we asked them
fre day if we can give them the money
back and get the shares but uh there's a
moment in time when you really want to
do that right the D angry they didn't
agree um yeah I I think uh what happened
was that um look we focused on cash flow
from day one day one and I want to tell
all of you something I think uh there's
something a bit misleading in how we
measure SAS companies and if if you take
one thing from this session this will be
it okay all the metrics that you're
using um you know LTV to CAC um um CAC
return rate all of them don't take cash
into account okay it's not cash it's not
cash ARR is not cash no uh CAC is not
cash uh LTV well I don't know what it is
but uh yeah it's a it's a bogus metric
but uh that definitely not cash that's
not anything uh so the point is nobody
measure cash and what is measuring cash
I want to explain when we started the
company uh what we were religious about
was to see the cash return so we would
spend money as I mentioned on Facebook
and YouTube and Google um so we would
measure when the cash left the bank
literally left the bank okay and that's
when we marked it and then we measured
when the cash came back into the bank
okay from those customers so we would
buy a Cort of customers and we see when
the money goes back into the company now
imagine that you have 5 million in the
bank 7 million in the bank one way to to
think about it is I can spend 5 million
on Performance Marketing this is not
what we've done when we had 5 million in
a bank we spent 25 million in
Performance Marketing now how do you do
that because we recycle the money super
quickly we would spend let's say 300K on
Performance Marketing and then after one
month we saw 50% back from that Campa so
150 back okay and then we saw 70% after
three months and five months we tracked
every penny how much when it goes out
when it comes in and this is how we
optimize the product the pricing
everything okay so you can think about
it like we raise money from our
customers usage okay uh VCS are not your
only resource uh if you if you think
about if you don't think about it uh
then you can say I'm going to raise more
money but if you focus on cash
efficiency you can make your business
super efficient and just scale much
faster as as a as a team yeah and just
to and I we'll dig in a little bit on
this in a second but just to take
another pause on this I
think you
know until fairly recently we really
weren't sure if B2B companies could be
efficient right we had kind of bought
into this Amazon like model when
Salesforce on IPO that yeah we could
spend a ton on sales and marketing and
and but our customer lifetime value is
70 years so at Terminus it's it all
works out and we all at and and then I
remember at the first s annual Aaron
Levy came one week after box IPO and I
asked him how did Wall Street buy into
this Molly's like well well not really I
mean it's it's it's tough and then
everyone and then sass the multiples got
big and people bought into this right um
but what we've proven and Monday's a
great case study is that look even if
maybe you give up a little bit of growth
and it's not clear that we do you can be
a you can have it all not it's not
easy but you can actually have a very
efficient model it's software right
write once ship a million times and you
can do it and you can do it spending a
lot of marketing right the only thing
that happened here those during those
four quarters was that we slow down
hiring that's the only yeah we'll hit
that one on the next slide only thing
we've done but you have to be efficient
from day one because if you're not
efficient from day one you don't measure
that even if you stop hiring that's not
going to happen uh so we slowed down
hiring that part of what drove the free
cash flow we became more efficient uh
but a big part of it was that we were
efficient from day one we measured
everything and we stayed efficient it's
part of the company DNA now if you have
to do it from day one change it once you
scale it's really hard uh to change
really hard yeah yeah so I want I think
we'll touch on the headcount on the next
one because it's interesting but just
for I think the one thing just for
Founders I want to stay focused on
Monday but a lot of folks have grabbed
me here already on day one and said my
investors my board told me I need to get
profitable okay and that's and Iran feel
free to editorialize this that's the
wrong lesson you do need to get
efficient getting profitable gets you
nowhere though right uh getting
profitable and growing 0% or 3% does not
build a Monday you've got to do what's
even harder you've got to find a way to
grow more efficiently but still grow
right I think there's a lot of bad
advice out there yeah overall VCS give a
bad advice that's a a lot a lot of a a
little little little some of them some
of them some of them a little bit of
whiplash on this uh but uh I agree I
think uh you know p&l profitable is not
a way to optimize your company uh and
free cash flow is much better because
this is something that you can do things
with it and I think a lot of investors
and I talk you talk a lot about this
about Ben efficient meaning you know
managing your cash and burn multiple
that you mention a lot of a lot of time
you know P pnl wise I wouldn't Focus too
much about it especially when you're a
young company yeah okay so this one oh I
we might have the the employees the next
one I do want to hit it um this one
super there's a lot of interesting going
on here but um I want to talk about this
one high nrr from smbs right and um I
almost know the secrets from Monday but
I actually don't know I think this is
one of the most important things to talk
about for anyone that's conquered SBS
and we can see on this first chart
actually there has been some NR impact
from macro right no doubt about it if
you look at 125 to 110 that's macro
that's it getting harder folks hiring
fewer people scrutinizing more still
epic though for SMB um um what what's
the secret how do you get over 100 for
smbs because I think Organics like 90
like you talked about at 70 right if you
don't do something I don't think you
crack a 100 yeah um so so like Jason
mentioned part of the macro we saw was
that our pricing is based on seats
meaning how many people you have in your
organization so what happened was that
some companies reduced hiring and that
was the impact that we saw and I think a
lot of SAS companies saw that I think in
some respect it shows the disadvantages
of having a seeds model it has a
downside it has a downside down when
when everybody's hiring and growing
that's a great thing but it has downside
and we saw some companies which are most
more consumption based that weren't as
affected so one thing we think about is
maybe we should have like a mix model
you know both seats and consumption to
to an extent so that's another thing
that we're thinking about but I I think
first of all for us we always try to
optimize nrr and gross retention so both
gross retention and tension again we
measure it um from day one uh we have
cost to tension around U mid 80s
something like that on all customers but
obviously it's much greater uh on
Enterprise something that really drove
nrr was definitely going up Market uh
that's something we've done uh late in
the game uh only around 2018 yeah so
going back to me telling that I'm an
engineer my partner is an engineer uh I
I think we at some point we said we're
never going to have a sales team well we
were wrong uh we have a huge sales team
right now um but that was a good lesson
because what I found I always said I
want to build the most amazing product
what I found is that the most amazing
product for Enterprise companies is to
have a person talking with them you know
it's like they want to talk with
somebody they have security issues they
have governance they need help and this
is just a better product so that's how I
think about it uh so building a sales
team was a great growth driver in terms
of nrr and bringing more accounts um so
so the more customers you have the more
nrr is important that's uh one of the
things um what happens like when you a
young company you focus a lot on
acquisition that kind of drives the AR
you always acquire more comp no more
companies than you have but think about
Monday right now uh 90% 85 90% of the
revenue is from existing customers that
customer that I didn't know was that
high 85 to 90% yeah that's customers
have been with the company for more than
a year now think about it you have that
many customers and as you scale even
though you do Performance Marketing you
do the Super Bowl you do whatever you
want that increment is going to be
insignificant compared to the
subscription Revenue you already have so
you let's say you want to grow 30% 40%
how do you do it only with nrr that's
eventually the company growth will
become its nrr uh because that's the
majority of the customers that you carry
with you that's the majority of the
revenue so that's why it's so important
to focus on that my tips for increasing
nrr was first measure it uh maybe it
sounds intuitive but a lot of companies
don't do it we build a customer success
team we measure everything we have
people in charge of making this number
grow so that's tip number one uh and tip
number two is you know instead of my
intuition was always oh we need a higher
nrr we need to improve the product now
nobody knew what to do with this
information okay we improving the
product all the time like what
specifically do we need to do so over
time we added more uh we can sell you
know because eventually if you create
more value and you create more sales
opportunities that helps Drive the NR go
up so multiproduct add-ons uh Enterprise
features anything that can give
customers more value while giving you
more revenue and the company it's a
great way to increase the ndr and I I
should know this but today do you know
what percent of your revenue is sales
driven or sales assisted sort of sales
Le versus Pure Pro premium um I I could
we have the 50k segment uh so that was
um um almost nothing like 3 or four
years ago now it's almost 30% of 30% all
right so the majority is still mostly
self-service um but from nothing to 30
in the last years the main growth engine
for us the company and so I
think uh it doesn't seem like you went
up Market too late because the growth
was pretty linear but was should you
have done it a little bit earlier did
you sequence it right what's what what's
the learning looking back on it um yeah
definitely you know always great to
start earlier you know like 2017 2016 uh
I can said that our investors were right
like they always said like at some point
you didn't have a sales team but they
were patient with us uh well you did
just fine yeah uh yeah uh but definitely
was a game changer we actually the first
sale that we ever done was u a guy from
our customer success team uh he said
trust me let me sell to a customer I can
I can do it so we just did it uh we got
like the first 50k deal and I was like
whoa like you've done it in a few days
that's amazing we need to build a team
so a lot of credit to him there's more
of those on the self serve folks there's
more of those stories where someone said
let me just go sell it it's a pretty
common
story actually okay I think we hit this
one you're right we did hit this one who
finish Q2 with 63% year-over increase so
it's good you went up Market yeah yeah
it's uh look it's it's amazing to see
the growth of that segment and the
Enterprise customers yeah yeah uh um oh
sorry we did hit this one 29% let me
talk about oh maybe we didn't have the
head count one I thought we had it um
there is a slide that maybe isn't in
here but let let me imagine it for the
audience so I don't skip too many um I
think for about four quarters roughly
you kept headcount about flat right so
that's how you went from
negative uh cash flow to Epic in four
quarters and then I think it grew a
little bit last quarter right I think
you you're hiring
again so did we get too efficient to so
this is the meta question for 2024 202
can we stay as efficient as we are today
are we too efficient are we mortgaging a
little bit of our futures because our
sales teams are too lean or everything
or can we Su sustain this level of
efficiency yeah um so it depends so
first of all we'll back the hiring we're
going to add another 500 people next
year so that's the plan so how many
employees today uh now we have about uh
1,800 so we're going to be 2,300 next
year okay so hold on let me just I wish
I had that slide but you're 1,800 Yeah
so basically you kept it roughly 1,800
for five quarters okay it was I think
1,600 in the beginning of the year so we
increased like 200 but now sometimes my
math gets worse in the afternoon help me
because you're you're the real engineer
but you're going to add I know the
numbers you're going to add 25% to the
head count next year yeah so so that's
re accelerating right less than but less
than Revenue right yeah but but the free
cash flow is going to remain the same
percentage so you're going to so okay so
if if they're roughly equal you'll
maintain the free cash flow and you'll
you'll stay stable by putting that money
back into hiring yeah so so basically
what happened was that uh we reduced
hiring because the demand was not
growing as we expected you know even
though I mentioned that we kept
Performance Marketing but the demand
went a little bit lower than what it was
so we just adjusted the sales team we
measure everything the sales team as
well so now we see a trend where we see
more demand more customers so we have
the confidence that we can continue and
hire you know more sales people more R&D
people uh so we're gonna re accelerate
highing we already been doing that but I
think what happened was very healthy for
the companies we got rid of a lot of fat
that we had not a lot because we were
very efficient but every company has fat
uh so we took the fat out and and also
improved a lot of things so we're
committed to stay free cash uh flow
positive uh roughly the same percentage
we continue to grow the head count next
year yeah I think we all we all had some
fat right if you did well what are are
the what are the things are there some
things you're not going back to are
there some practices that change so you
can stay fitter or less fat or more
efficient have things changed look I
think uh what happened in 2021 and 2022
were was very deceiving because if the
economy is growing like crazy you don't
know what is it that you're doing that
makes you successful okay yeah it's like
everything works everything was done
works but not it wasn't like really the
case okay like when everything is
growing up and to the right everything
looks good you feel like everything
you're doing is like wow amazing like uh
such an amazing idea but when the
economy changeed suddenly not everything
looks as shiny so you know we had so
many initiatives so many things we
wanted to build like five six years from
now and at some point when the economy
changed we said okay we need to focus we
need to do what's working we need to
reduce what's not working and I feel
that's very healthy for a lot of
companies I think we got confused that
we attributed the success to ourselves
as opposed to understand that there are
micr trends for better and worse right
uh that we write it on in order to be
successful yeah the the more you go
through hypergrowth actually sometimes
the less you're sure why right yeah
that's problem and did you one thing
that I know a lot of people are thinking
about and struggling with about um when
you got fitter um how did did you did
you how did you help the sales team
adjust right because a lot of fat gets
into the sales team too right and how do
you how did you did you think about
metrics differently attainment
differently um did it change the type of
rep you were looking for did you because
that's something a lot of folks are
struggling with yeah we we kind of
reoptimize the quota for salese uh lower
higher different higher yeah again you
set a quota you have expectations from
salese and you know like you can control
how many leads are getting uh what your
expectations for them so we increase the
quota make them more efficient reduce
some of the um you know helping teams
that help them sell but wasn't as
efficient you know sdrs optimize some of
those teams csms uh account managers you
just when you grow and everything up to
the right like you keep hiring and and
you say oh I'm not sure it's working but
let's hire more people and scale that
and we went back to the drawing board
and optimized some teams and start to
measure things we haven't done before
and you know once You' been proactive
about it it's really you can optimize a
lot of things in the company I I think
you know with so economy change instead
of thinking okay we stuck in the
situation we're going to have a shitty
quarter we're going to have a shitty
year uh just like coid in a way we said
let's do something about it let's change
you know let's let's try to be proactive
let's take control um something I heard
from one of the founders uh uh which
which I admire was that uh like in down
term uh the greatest companies are
forged and and I understand it now
because if you are resilient through a
downturn and are able to change your
company and pivot quickly instead of you
know just step yourself on the back and
saying oh we're going to pass through
that I think it shows resilient and it
it kind of give birth to the best
companies going forward all right one
last one on this efficiency one I know
I've I've got a lot but it's just it's
so good to have you on because I do
think this is the theme of the next
couple years right Sam Sara just in
their last quarter they had a great
quarter and they said we didn't have
enough sales capacity I samsar actually
had some big macro impacts but it was
earlier than others I think it was three
or four quarters ago they had a hit one
and then boom and they were just like we
just don't have an we literally don't
have enough we're hiring like mad right
did you learn anything about sales
capacity is complicated did did you
learn about anything from going from fat
to skinny to higher quotas do you have
enough capacity now or or any evolution
of that learning um first of all things
happen you know just uh organically like
it's not always the salesperson that
closes the deal some things happen just
because they happen you know customers
want to upgrade they want to more seats
they want more use cases so you discover
throughout the the process that you can
do more with less people uh so I think
that's one Discovery we had and we
started to measure that more and to make
sure that we never go back you know
always never go back always try to
optimize more because the less people
you have the more quickly you can move
and react and change as a company I
think EV a lot of people has a huge down
downside to it uh especially when you're
a young company uh so I think that was a
good learning for us and we're committed
to continue with that going forward okay
that's good thing all right last one
we'll be out of time but can we put this
slide back up I think we lost him just
for fun I know we hit this already but
uh if we can okay I know we already hit
this and you already answered this
question but just for fun so a lot the
Super Bowl perform uh I I don't even
know if that's perform Performance
Marketing maybe that's brand marketing
and literally it seemed like Monday
everywhere on YouTube but I think you're
going to tell me the learnings on the
left is it all worked right these
endless YouTube ads worked uh any quick
summary there and then tell us about the
Super Bowl and then we'll break
yeah so we had uh our first maybe last
I'm not sure uh super ad uh maybe last
is that I don't know we'll see um look
it it was great like uh it was a great
experiment and uh we've done it at like
the peak of the bubble I would say yeah
uh beginning of
2021 um and I think for me it was an
experience look we had Billboards before
on even here on the 101 and uh we had
the subway ads but we could always
measure them uh to some extent because
we saw the uplift in traffic again we
try to measure everything with Super
Bowl was more tricky because it's like
one day one event One commercial uh the
the uplift wasn't worth it uh I tell you
what did happen uh something that in
almost every sales call uh one of the
one of the customers mentioned that they
saw us during a super W ad now how do
you measure that what's the value of
that I'm not sure are you sure it didn't
work then well I don't know that's
multitouch I mean I don't know how
multi- touch you go given your
efficiency but it it doesn't sound like
it hurt the deal yeah it didn't hurt the
deal was it worth 8 million I'm not
sure I it's an interesting one right uh
okay but so so it you think it was Ro
negative but it came up in a lot of
deals so hard to say right all right but
that the you the YouTube's Roi positive
from day one right anyone that thinks it
didn't work doesn't know Performance
Marketing right yeah we we measure not
just clicks but actual views that people
view the ad and we can see a funnel
where people saw an ad and then go on
Google and search for money.com and we
see the whole journey of a customer
through big brain and we know how much
to attribute to each channel so again
making it very efficient and it's very
targetable so if you saw it it's not
like every single person United States
saw that ad you are you are being taret
definitely everybody here everybody here
for a while all right on this was great
thank you so much for the time thank
[Applause]
you